.TH RMTREE 1 "September 28, 2013" "Jean-Marc Bourguet" "Jean-Marc Bourguet's Utilities"

.SH NAME
rmtree \- remove directory entries

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmtree
[\|\fIOPTIONS\fR...\|] \fIpathnames\fR...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rmtree
removes the specified directory entries.  For those entries which are
directories themselves, it removes also their content.  The main
differences with
.B rm -fr
are
.IP \(bu
.B rmtree
is able to add accesss rights on directories in order to remove their
content.
.IP \(bu
by default
.B rmtree 
won't remove the content of a directory on which write access have been
removed.
.IP \(bu
without \-O, 
.B rmtree
won't remove files and directories not owned by the current user.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-h
built in help.

.TP
.B \-v
verbose mode, says what is done.

.TP
.B \-n
dry run, don't do anything.

.TP
.B -c
remove only the content of the specified directories but not the
directories themselves (if they contain directories, those are removed).

.TP
.B \-t 
remove only the content, keep the directory tree (no directories are
removed).

.TP
.B \-F
remove write protected files and directories.  Change access rights of
directories in order to remove their content.

.TP
.B \-R
force recursion in directories which won't be removed.  Normally 
.B rmtree
won't recurse in directories which won't be removed (for instance those
which are write protected without \-F, with another owner without \-O).

.TP
.B \-O
remove also only files and directories which aren't owned by the current
user.

.TP
.B \-M
traverse file system.  Without this option
.B rmtree
won't recurse into mount point.

.SH EXIT STATUS

.TP
0
all requested files and directories have been removed
.TP
1
some files and directories but not all have been removed
.TP
2
nothing has been removed

.SH EXAMPLES

.SS rmtree foo
.P
Remove the directory foo and its content. Not writable files and
directories (and their content) or those owned by another user are not
removed.

.SS rmtree -c .
.P
Remove the content of the current directory. Not writable files and
directories (and their content) or those owned by another user are not
removed.

.SS rmtree -F foo
.P
Remove the directory foo and its content, even files and directories which
are write protected (as long as 
.B rmtree
can gain write access to their containing directories).  Files and
directories (and their content) owned by another user are not removed.

.SS rmtree -R foo
.P
Remove the directory foo and its content. Not writable files and
directories or those owned by another user are not removed, but
.B rmtree
will look into those directories for files and directories it can remove.

.SS rmtree -O foo
.P
Remove the directory foo and its content, even those owned by another user.
Not writable files and directories are not removed.

.SS rmtree -FRO foo
.P
Remove the directory foo and its content, even files and directories which
are write protected (as long as 
.B rmtree
can gain write access to their containing directories) and those owned by
another user.  Will look into the directories it can't remove for files and
directories which can be removed.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rm (1), 
.BR rmdir (1)
